Senior Design Individual Capstone
Author: Athulya Ganesh 

For my senior design project, I am working on a project that combines Computer Vision and full-stack development. My group and I are creating a web application to showcase the benefits of Computer Vision. Each tab will allow you to perform multiple tasks like text to ASL conversion, using your finger to navigate through a laptop without having to use a mouse or touchscreen, and so on. Thus far, I have never taken a Computer Vision class or practiced Computer Vision projects on my own time and I hope to gain new CV experience through this project. When it comes to fullstack development, I do have some experience both professionally and personally, so I am looking forward to it. I have done my experiences using a variety of technologies like React, Javascript, Flask, Bootstrap and so on. A course I am taking this semester to help me out with the project is User Interface (CS 5167). Overall it is teaching me how to create good user interfaces that are easy for a user to navigate and understand. This understanding will be helpful for me to create interfaces for our project that are easy to understand and that people are able to navigate in a way that is intuitive and feels second-nature. 

	When it comes to co-ops, I have done four total co-ops, out of which 2 will really help me out with this experience. My first co-op was a web development project at an on-campus research lab called the iCDCU Laboratory, where I was responsible for creating an internal web application tool for all the lab members to use to share projects and project updates. This was my first time working with a professor who would provide me feedback and look at features and want more changes. It was a very rewarding experience since it gave me the opportunity to take feedback and make changes accordingly. 

Another experience that acts as a very nice background for this project is my experience at FOX Sports where I was on the Android Application Development Team. It really gave me an opportunity to try development in a completely new space, and transfer over some development skills that I already had into a new environment. I also got to see firsthand the wonders (and importance) of thorough testing, and it became apparent to me that testing is another important skill I must learn and keep under my belt, so I actively worked on this so that I could improve. I worked in an Agile environment in this co-op, which I really enjoyed if I’m being honest. That is something I am going to try and implement with my group during the course of our project– where we have a project lead, a Computer Vision lead and Development lead, and we meet weekly to do updates and set goals for the next week. Every two weeks, we will have a meeting with Dr Aurisano (our faculty advisor) to get feedback and let her in on future steps. 
I am extremely excited for this project because this is my first time working on a project that involves Computer Vision and full-stack development. I have done full stack on its own (current project I am working on is CEAS Tribunals Event Sign-Up web application), but combining it with Computer Vision to address a need that hasn’t been addressed before should be an interesting task. My preliminary approach to finding a solution will be to talk to my senior design faculty advisor quite a lot to hone in on a specific topic. The next step is to talk to a lot of people about what they would require help with that involves a camera/facial recognition etc. and assess where the real need for an application is. The next step is to do research about the kinds of apps that already exist, their functionalities and how our web app can be different (hopefully better). Then I will meet with my group members to flesh out the specific scope of the project and how we can start implementing it, what technical stack to use, what features to add, what the app itself would look like (wireframes). 

I believe that we would have done a good job when we are able to satisfy all the requirements we set out to achieve! Another benchmark we would set for ourselves is all the tickets we would create and assign points to them (like in an Agile environment). At the end of the project, most people should be at around the same number of points. Every week, we will also assess progress based on new features that someone has implemented. Their plans for the upcoming week will also tell us how much work this person is putting in. Overall, I believe that these are the main methods to figure out whether we have reached our standard of success. 



